README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<center>

![](man/figures/BAEDA-logo-dashboard.png)

<p>

<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student"><strong>Explore
the docs » </strong></a> <br>
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student">View
Demo</a> ·
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues">Report
Bug</a> ·
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues">Request
Feature</a>

</p>

</center>

-----

This project consists in the design and development of interactive
dashboards for the analysis of buildings energy data. In particular, we
propose to interact with the data in a deeper way by providing different
level of data manipulation, from simple pre-processing tasks to advanced
methods (e.g., clustering).

The user can modify the models hyper-parameters directly from the UI,
giving a great flexibility in the exploration.

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

## Table of Contents

  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      - [shinyapps.io (Online)](#shinyappsio-online)
      - [AWS (Online)](#aws-online)
      - [Package Version (Local)](#package-version-local)
      - [Version Control (Local)](#version-control-local)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Author](#author)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## Getting Started

The eDASH can be accessed in many different way depending on the user.
We provide an online version for base users who can access the service
with no software requirements, a local access by installing the
dashboard as an R package for intermediate and finally a version control
installation for developer and contributors.

### shinyapps.io (Online)

From this
[link](https://roberto-chiosa.shinyapps.io/BAEDA_DASHBOARD_STUDENTS/) it
is possible to access and use the dashboard online without having R or
Rstudio installed on your computer. Thanks to
[shinyapps.io](https://www.shinyapps.io/) the whole application is
hosted online and accessible without any requirements other than an
internet connection.

> :exclamation-triangle: **Warning**: Since the online hosting is performed through
> the free account, a limit of 25 active hours is set from the server.
> If this limit is exceded the app will not be available untill the next
> month cycle. Therefore, we suggest to exploit the dashboard
> functionalities by cloning the repository on your local machines as
> explained in the following.

### AWS (Online)

From this
[link](https://roberto-chiosa.shinyapps.io/BAEDA_DASHBOARD_STUDENTS/) it
is possible to access and use the dashboard online without having R or
Rstudio installed on your computer. Thanks to [Amazon Web
Services](https://aws.amazon.com/it/) the whole application is hosted on
a virtual machine (EC2) accessible without any requirements other than
an internet connection.

### Package Version (Local)

This kind of installation is suitable for those who have the permission
to download the code and want to run the dashboard locally as if it was
a R package. Since the code is hosted on a private GitHub repository the
user must have the permissions

Install the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student")
```

Then you can run the application by simply typing in the console:

``` r
library("eDASH")
eDASH::run_app()
```

### Version Control (Local)

This kind of installation is suitable for developers who have the
permission access the private GitHub repository and download the full
code. The process described allows you to get the whole GitHub
repository on your computer.

Be sure to have the latest version of
[RStudio](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/) installed, then follow
these steps:

1.  In RStudio, start a new Project by following this path *“File \> New
    Project \> Version Control \> Git”*;
2.  In *“Repository URL”*, paste this URL
    `https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student`;
3.  Accept the default *“Project directory name”* which coincides with
    the GitHub repo name `dashboard-student`;
4.  Chose a local path to save the repository on your computer;
5.  Click *“Create Project”*.

Now you have cloned the repository and you can contribute\!

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## Contributing

Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**. If you want to
propose a feature or report a bug please open a new
[issue](https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues). If
you want to contribute to the code, follow these steps:

1.  Create your Feature Branch, called for example `MYBRANCH` (`git
    checkout -b feature/MYBRANCH`);
2.  Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`);
3.  Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/MYBRANCH`);
4.  Open a Pull Request.

In this project we follow a defined convection for branch names, so
please follow it. The main branch is called `main` and is the online
branch. If you want to contribute on one module for example the
`clustering` module, please call the branch.

![](man/figures/git.svg)

<!-- AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS -->

## Author

  - [Roberto Chiosa]()

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## Acknowledgements

  - [RStudio](https://rstudio.com/)
  - [Shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/)
  - [shinyapps.io](https://www.shinyapps.io/)
  - [Shinydashboard](https://rstudio.github.io/shinydashboard/)

You’ll still need to render `README.Rmd` regularly, to keep `README.md`
up-to-date. `devtools::build_readme()` is handy for this. You could also
use GitHub Actions to re-render `README.Rmd` every time you push. An
example workflow can be found here:
<https://github.com/r-lib/actions/tree/master/examples>.

``` bash
ssh -i "baeda-demo1.pem" ubuntu@ec2-18-222-204-38.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com
```

Commit message:

Fixed fa issues and added github action to build docs

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->


<center>

![](man/figures/BAEDA-logo-dashboard.png)

<p>

<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student"><strong>Explore
the docs » </strong></a> <br>
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student">View
Demo</a> ·
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues">Report
Bug</a> ·
<a href="https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues">Request
Feature</a>

</p>

</center>

-----

This project consists in the design and development of interactive
dashboards for the analysis of buildings energy data. In particular, we
propose to interact with the data in a deeper way by providing different
level of data manipulation, from simple pre-processing tasks to advanced
methods (e.g., clustering).

The user can modify the models hyper-parameters directly from the UI,
giving a great flexibility in the exploration.

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

## Table of Contents

  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      - [shinyapps.io (Online)](#shinyappsio-online)
      - [AWS (Online)](#aws-online)
      - [Package Version (Local)](#package-version-local)
      - [Version Control (Local)](#version-control-local)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Author](#author)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## Getting Started

The eDASH can be accessed in many different way depending on the user.
We provide an online version for base users who can access the service
with no software requirements, a local access by installing the
dashboard as an R package for intermediate and finally a version control
installation for developer and contributors.

### shinyapps.io (Online)

From this
[link](https://roberto-chiosa.shinyapps.io/BAEDA_DASHBOARD_STUDENTS/) it
is possible to access and use the dashboard online without having R or
Rstudio installed on your computer. Thanks to
[shinyapps.io](https://www.shinyapps.io/) the whole application is
hosted online and accessible without any requirements other than an
internet connection.

> **Warning**: Since the online hosting is performed through
> the free account, a limit of 25 active hours is set from the server.
> If this limit is exceded the app will not be available untill the next
> month cycle. Therefore, we suggest to exploit the dashboard
> functionalities by cloning the repository on your local machines as
> explained in the following.


### Package Version (Local)

This kind of installation is suitable for those who have the permission
to download the code and want to run the dashboard locally as if it was
a R package. Since the code is hosted on a private GitHub repository the
user must have the permissions

Install the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student")
```

Then you can run the application by simply typing in the console:

``` r
library("eDASH")
eDASH::run_app()
```

### Version Control (Local)

This kind of installation is suitable for developers who have the
permission access the private GitHub repository and download the full
code. The process described allows you to get the whole GitHub
repository on your computer.

Be sure to have the latest version of
[RStudio](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/) installed, then follow
these steps:

1.  In RStudio, start a new Project by following this path *“File \> New
    Project \> Version Control \> Git”*;
2.  In *“Repository URL”*, paste this URL
    `https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student`;
3.  Accept the default *“Project directory name”* which coincides with
    the GitHub repo name `dashboard-student`;
4.  Chose a local path to save the repository on your computer;
5.  Click *“Create Project”*.

Now you have cloned the repository and you can contribute\!

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## Contributing

Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**. If you want to
propose a feature or report a bug please open a new
[issue](https://github.com/baeda-polito/dashboard-student/issues). If
you want to contribute to the code, follow these steps:

1.  Create your Feature Branch, called for example `MYBRANCH` (`git
    checkout -b feature/MYBRANCH`);
2.  Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`);
3.  Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/MYBRANCH`);
4.  Open a Pull Request.

In this project we follow a defined convection for branch names, so
please follow it. The main branch is called `main` and is the online
branch. If you want to contribute on one module for example the
`clustering` module, please call the branch.

<!-- AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS -->

## Contributors

  - [Roberto Chiosa](), creator and maintainer
  - [Giacomo Buscemi](), contributor and maintainer
  - [Rocco Giudice](), contributor and maintainer

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## Acknowledgements

  - [RStudio](https://rstudio.com/)
  - [Shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/)
  - [shinyapps.io](https://www.shinyapps.io/)
  - [Shinydashboard](https://rstudio.github.io/shinydashboard/)
