Chiosa Roberto
03-05-2020

<style type="text/css">
body {          
max-width:100%;
padding:0;
}
</style>

# What Is Etherium?

**[Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/en/) is a open, permissionless
blockchain platform that enables developers to build decentralized
applications (DApps) on its blockchain**. Ether (ETH) is the native
digital currency of the Ethereum platform.

As Bitcoin, it is purely digital, and can be sent to anyone anywhere in
the world instantly. The supply of ETH isn’t controlled by any
government or company - it is decentralized, and it is scarce. The main
difference is that **Ethereum is programmable**, which means that
developers can use it to build new kinds of applications, which fights
oft centralization in favour of decentralization, that has more
attractive value proposition to developers and entrepreneurs (see the
aritcle [Why Decentralization
Matters](https://onezero.medium.com/why-decentralization-matters-5e3f79f7638e)).

# How Does Etherium Work?

Vitalik Buterin first conceptualized Ethereum in 2013 with the idea of
developing an open-source blockchain platform different from Bitcoin
(BTC), thus pioneering **smart contracts** (see the [Etherium
whitepaper](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/)). On the Ethereum
blockchain, a smart contract behaves like a self-operating computer
program that automatically executes when specific conditions are met.
Blockchain allows smart contracts’ code to be run exactly as programmed
without any possibility of downtime, censorship, fraud or third-party
interference.

# How Does Etherium Mining Work?

Ethereum mining is currently based on a proof-of-work (PoW) protocol
(like Bitcoin), with future plans to switch to proof-of-stake. Ethereum
mining works when miners use their computational power to solve a
mathematical problem (finding the hash of a block’s unique header
metadata). The first miner to successfully solve the problem (find the
hash) then broadcasts that the block has been mined to the entire
Ethereum network for other nodes to validate and add the block to the
blockchain.

The Ethash proof-of-work protocol makes it not profitable to use ASICs
to mine (unlike Bitcoin). Each Ethereum block aims to take an average of
12 seconds to be mined, and the level of difficulty of mining is
proportional to the total amount of computer power (or network’s
hashrate) being used to mine Ethereum.

Every computation that occurs as a result of a transaction on the
Ethereum network incurs a fee, paid in a denomination called “gas.” Gas
is the unit used to measure the fees required for a particular
computation. Gas price is the amount of Ether you are willing to spend
on every unit of gas, and is measured in “gwei.” “Wei” is the smallest
unit of Ether, where 1⁰¹⁸ Wei represents 1 Ether. One gwei is
1,000,000,000 Wei.

With every transaction, a sender sets a gas limit and gas price. The
product of gas price and gas limit represents the maximum amount of Wei
that the sender is willing to pay for executing a transaction (for
further info see [How does Ethereum work,
anyway?](https://medium.com/@preethikasireddy/how-does-ethereum-work-anyway-22d1df506369)).

Ethereum’s major network upgrade, dubbed Ethereum 2.0,
[Eth2](https://medium.com/@adamscochran/7-reasons-eth2-0-will-create-the-next-economic-shift-f689d2f1ec24)
or Serenity, will bring with it
[Sharding](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-roadmap/ethereum-2.0/sharding/),
[Proof of
Stake](https://docs.ethhub.io/ethereum-roadmap/ethereum-2.0/proof-of-stake/),
a new virtual machine (eWASM) and more. The Ethereum blockchain was
supposed to update to 2.0 in January 2020, but the deadline was not met.

# What is etherium used for?

The Ethereum platform is used by developers to build new kinds of
[DApps](https://cryptonomist.ch/2019/08/17/dapp-cosa-sono-come-funzionano/),
which can have a variety of uses ranging from the creation of new
digital assets and uncensorable web apps to building decentralized
autonomous organizations and more. Anyone around the world is able to
freely connect to the Ethereum network.
