Chiosa Roberto
03-05-2020

<style type="text/css">
body {          
max-width:100%;
padding:0;
}
</style>

# What Is Cardano?

Cardano is a decentralized third-generation **proof-of-stake**
blockchain platform and home to the ada cryptocurrency. It is the first
blockchain platform to evolve out of a scientific philosophy and a
research-first driven approach.

Cardano is developing a **smart contract platform** which seeks to
deliver more advanced features than any protocol previously developed.
The development team consists of a large global collective of expert
engineers and researchers. The protocol reportedly features a layered
blockchain software stack that is **flexible**, **scalable** and is
being developed with the most rigorous academic and commercial software
standards in the industry.

Cardanoâ€™s roadmap for development has been divided into five eras:
Byron, Shelley, Goguen, Basho and Voltaire. While each separate era has
its own set of functionalities that will be developed and supported in
multiple code releases in a sequential order, the development of each
era is parallel and simultaneous across the different systems. Cardano
also has its own block explorer, which allows users to check the history
of ADA transactions that are publicly recorded on the blockchain.

<div class="figure" style="text-align: center">

<img src="roadmap.png" alt="Cardano Roadmap" width="100%" />

<p class="caption">

Cardano Roadmap

</p>

</div>

# How can I store Cardano?

It is highly recommended to avoid keeping your cryptocurrency in an
exchange longer than necessary, and instead to use a cryptocurrency
wallet. We recommend either a full-node wallet like
[Daedalus](https://daedaluswallet.io/), or the browser-based
[Yoroi](https://yoroi-wallet.com/#/).
